# Lola (2022)
[Letterboxd Review](https://letterboxd.com/usagichann1/film/lola-2022/)

I wasn't going to watch this film at first, but ultimately boredom and the tagline of science fiction made me turn it on.  I can't say I recommend this movie, but it has at least a semi-interesting premise.

In the early years of World War 2, a mysterious broadcast that accurately shows where and when the Germans were going to bomb within the UK is sent out.  That and many subsequent broadcasts saves many thousands of lives.  the govt starts to track down who is sending the broadcasts and finally finds two sisters who seem to have invented an apparatus that lets them receives broadcasts, both TV and Radio from the future. They called the device "Lola".

The film is done in a found footage manner, so the entire film is in black and white.  It also makes creative use of both 1970s music, and some new music made in the 70s style. David Bowie features prominently in the beginning, and then spectacularly, as alternate history is being made, they put some real bangers of songs made in the style of Bowie (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fKX_VHP92cA)

In any case, once you get past the conceit of being able to see and hear the future, the rest of the film is remarklably clever.  The alternate history parts of it are pretty crazy, but what alternate history isn't crazy?

this is a really good augment to movies like "The Imitation Game" and "Enigma" as an alternative to what could have happened in World War 2.

Mild recommend.