# Doki Doki Literature Club Review

Doki Doki Literature Club is one of those games that you can only really ever play once.  To make up for it, it sticks to you for the rest of your life.

The game is basically a visual novel that allows you to romance a variety of high school girls.  The premise is much like 90% of all the visual novels out there, complete with happy music, contrite scenaros, and a cast of cute girls.  

That's pretty much where the similarities end.  The rest of the game turns very quickly into the unexpected and turns the table on the player very quickly.

The game is actually available for [free](https://teamsalvato.itch.io/ddlc/download/eyJpZCI6MTA2NTk5LCJleHBpcmVzIjoxNzEwMDE0Mzk5fQ%3d%3d.p8UwNv%2bHYmSjdaUHs2qPG0recxk%3d), and I highly encourage anyone who's never played to go play it for free. It does require a Windows operated PC however, but for the grand price of free, its still incrediblly amazing.

I also don't want to spoil the game more than I already have, but I have to say this game is one of the most creative in terms of getting the players to do things.  You'd think that the visual novel medium does not give you a lot of ways to get player interaction in, but you'd be wrong. This is also one of the few games that you can really do on the PC platform. The developers tried to replicate the type of experience when they ported this to console, but it really does lose quite a bit of effect in translation.

The soundtrack is also quite good and the entire game is a masterpiece in psychology.  You'd figure that the main antagonist would be quite hated, but thanks to the ending theme, everyone ends up sympathizing and even thinking the antagonist is the anti-hero.

Quite amazing, its really too bad you can only play this once, but such is life.

Highly recommended.

