# Kenai
[Goodreads Review](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/6983084921)

Kennai is one of those free books that Amazon gives out every so often. I picked it up on a whim and the first few chapters was quite decent, however the rest of the book turned into this whirlpool of a rat's tail that basically took you quite far and required a huge amount of...I dunno. suspension of disbelief would be generous.

Anyway, I later found out that this book was the result of some Sci-Fi writer's club contest thing. Nothing against amateurs, they have spun out some great work, and everyone's an amateur at some point, and the beginning of the book WAS good and compelling.

But the middle of the book, once you figure out its some weird time travelling book really falls flat for me. In brief, there's a section of the book where the author explains that the main character is actually moving forward in time (normal) but the secondary characters are going backwards in time (w t f). the conceit starts off being well done at first, but I fear that keeping everything balanced (and not even going through the whole "how does this makes sense thing)) is really beyond the skills of the author at this time.

the last third of the book was some....i dunno. natavist human savior thing in my opinion. its the weakest part of the book and if i had read that section first, I'd probably have stopped.

all in all, for a book with only 2 or 3 main characters, the book is quite weak. i'm not exactly asking for my time back, but i should have finished another book instead.

skip.
