# The Story of the Earth in 25 Rocks
[Goodreads Review](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/7925865882)

I'll admit that I listened to this audiobook in its entirety but I cannot tell you much about what I read about it. There's some tidbits of good material in there, but the bulk of it just washed by me because the topic is so dry to me. At first glance, this would seem more like a geology book and how precious minerals and material from the ground influences things about the world and ideally how it affects the mundane layperson, but very quickly the book goes from something that's relatable to becoming almost a textbook. The amount of jargon that is laid upon the reader makes it hard to read, much less listen to.

I did finish listening to the book, but I have to say, i retained almost nothing from the book. There's very little focus, no central theme, just random stories and while some of them are interesting, the bulk of them just fades from mind the moment you hear them. While that might be some fault of the reader/listener, I always feel its the job of the writer to make sure the text is engaging and does what it says. If it says this is going to be interesting/good for the lay person it better darn well be. None of us have to read books like this, so if its not engaging, we're just going to drop it, or in my case, not recommend it.

I'm sure there's a gem of a book to be mined somewhere in here, but I couldn't be bothered to go down that mineshaft.

not recommended.